Now that we have our Kubernetes deployment and service files available,
it's time to actually run our containers in Kubernetes.
And I'm going to show you the process,
as well as a few key commands to make that happen.
So before jumping back to the command line,
let's talk about a few key commands that you're going to want to
know if you start working with Kubernetes.
Now as with Docker, there are a lot of commands you use every day,
and there are some you just don't use that often.
So these are some of the commands that are very frequent,
and there are certainly a lot of other commands you could use as well.
So first off, if you just want to get the version that you're running,
you can run kubectl, or kubectl, however you like to say it,
version.
If you want to get information about deployments or services or Pods or nodes,
then you could do the get command.
We can also get one container up and running very quickly with a run command,
and this allows us to name what it is we're going to do and then pick the image.
If we have our deployment files and services,
which we have, then a very easy way to get all those going is to do an apply.
Now with apply, you could say ‑f and either give it a file name of,
for instance, a deployment, or you could just give it a folder name,
and all the different Kubernetes files in there would be applied.
I'm actually going to be using the folder name trick here in just a moment.
And then, finally, as you're working on your local machine,
you'll probably want to expose one of the Pods so
that we can actually get to it.
So we can do that through a port‑forward command,
and I'm going to show that as well.
So now that we've seen some of the basic commands,
let's see how we can use a few of these to actually get some information
about Kubernetes and then also go in and run our containers.
So coming back over to the CODEWITHDANDOCKERSERVICES project,
I've opened that up,
and I have the Kubernetes files I mentioned earlier available here.
So we have, again, our deployments.
That gets us to the desired state we want to get to for Mongo,
NGINX, Node, and Redis.
And then we have the services, which, again,
acts as kind of an abstraction layer for IP
addresses so we can talk to those Pods.
All of those do much more than just that.
But I want to emphasize that because there's quite a bit to it,
but this will be enough to get us going.
So the first thing I'm going to do is we could come on in and
just run the kubectl command for the version.
And this will give us some information, probably more than you want.
But a nice reason for running this is it lets us know that,
yeah, things are working correctly,
and the kubectl command is actually giving me back some info.
Now we could also come in and say, Hey, Kubernetes,
what deployments do you have?
So we can get deployments, and right now there are none.
We could also run this and say, What Pods do we have?
Well, likely, if we don't have any deployments,
we may not have any Pods, although it depends.
No Pods found.
We could even come in and say, What services do you have?
Now we do have one here you'll notice.
This is the cluster IP address for the overall
Kubernetes cluster on my local machine.
Now as a heads‑up when it comes to the cluster,
when you're working with Docker Desktop on Windows or Mac,
you're going to get one node in your cluster that you can use.
So you're not going to able to scale out the actual nodes in this environment.
But it's just enough that we'll be able to play with
different flavors of containers, get them orchestrated,
and test everything out.
So it's very good for testing purposes to try out your app in Kubernetes.
Now if we wanted to just get a single container such
as the NGINX Alpine up and running,
then we could say I'd like to run, I'm going to call it
nginx‑server, and then give it the image.
Now, in this case,
I'm going to pick nginx:alpine mainly because it's
pretty small and quick and easy.
And then when we run this, if I hit Enter right now,
we're probably going to get a message saying that a
particular generator template is deprecated.
It'll tell us another command we could run.
Now I fully expect into the future that will probably change,
but as of today, that's what I've been getting.
So let me go ahead and run it.
Okay, and there's the message.
So right now it's using this apps.v1 generator template,
saying it's deprecated, and that we should instead use ‑‑generator=run‑pod/v1.
Now, in this case, this is good enough for our demo though.
If we go in and say, Let's get the deployments.
And as a quick little tip here,
you don't actually have to type it all the way out.
You could just say deploy for example.
There we go.
There's our NGINX server.
Let's clear that and let's get any Pods.
All right, and there is the name of our Pod.
Now, currently, the container inside of this Pod is running on port 80.
But if I run off to the browser, and let's refresh here,
you'll notice I can't hit anything.
Well, that's because it's not exposed outside of the cluster,
so you can think of it, it's internal to the cluster currently.
Well, this is where the port forwarding is useful,
especially for just running things locally.
So one more time if we run kubectl get pods, this name right here is important.
So I'm going to copy that.
And now I'm going to do the kubectl.
We're going to run port‑forward, give it the name of the Pod.
So I'm going to paste in what I just copied.
And then, externally, just so I can show you it's working,
we're going to say, externally, use 8080,
and forward that to 80 on this Pod because that's what NGINX is running.
Now this is going to lock up the console the way I've done it.
But that's okay.
You'll notice a forwarding message comes up.
And if we refresh this, obviously this isn't what we want.
We're not on 8080, but let's try out 8080.
And there we go.
Now we're able to hit our first Pod with a container inside of it,
which is NGINX Alpine.
Now I'd like to delete that, so I'm going to say kubectl delete,
and we have a deployment here,
so I'm going to say deploy or deployment if you want,
and then nginx‑server.
Now that's going to go ahead and delete that deployment.
So now if we say get deploy, you'll notice no resources found.
Now sometimes it takes a little bit of time for the Pods though.
So let's take a look.
Okay, now, that's already cleared out.
On occasion, you might still see the Pods,
but the status will be that, hey,
we're trying to take this down and delete it, destroy it right now.
Likewise, let's go back to the services,
and you can see we're back to just our cluster IP here.
Okay, so we're making some progress.
Now the last thing I want to show is how do we go in and apply all these files?
Because I actually want to get the real thing going here.
Well, we can do a very similar process to what you saw already,
but now we're going to use a new kubectl command called apply.
And then I'm going to say that the file or,
in this case, folder I want to get to is the .k8s that I have.
Now what that will do is iterate through these files
and apply each of the deployments, the services,
and I even have some environment variables here,
into Kubernetes.
Now let's go ahead and try this.
And there we go.
You can see it ran through all of those.
We'll give it a sec here.
But if I clear it and go back to kubectl get,
for instance, services, there we go.
We have quite a few now.
We have the Kubernetes cluster IP, but we also have Mongo,
NGINX, Node, and Redis.
So that's a good start.
Let's go to kubectl get pods.
All right, and there are our different Pods.
And let's do kubectl get nodes.
Now I mentioned you can only have one node, but I'll show it here.
There you go, docker‑desktop.
Okay, now, if I go back to the browser,
and we have NGINX on port 80 in this case,
but you'll notice again nothing.
Well, the reason for that is we, of course, don't have that port exposed.
So let's go back to our Pods, and let's grab our NGINX Pod name here,
and then we're going to do the port‑forward one more time. And now I'm
going to do 8080 to 80, although I could do 80 as well.
Now, sometimes if you do 80, by the way,
you might have to run that with elevated privileges, just as a heads‑up,
or maybe even just doing a normal port‑forward like this,
you might occasionally have to run as sudo on Mac.
Or, if you're on Windows,
you might have to run in the command prompt as an elevated
administrator type of command. Let's go ahead and try it.
All right, that looks pretty good.
And now let's go to 8080.
Let's refresh because that's cached.
Alright, and there we go.
Now the database doesn't have anything in it, so nothing is loading here.
But it is working.
We can see it forwarded to our node. The node called the database.
There was nothing. But if we wanted to see that or
just hook into that database now,
we can even do a port‑forward on that if we'd like.
Then we could pull up a tool to update Mongo.
So that's an example of applying multiple deployment and service files, as
well as using some of these other Kubernetes commands.
And this is something that, quite honestly,
you just need to practice a little bit.
None of it's really super hard as far as the commands. I think
the most challenging part is getting the YAML files correct and configured. But, as we've seen, Compose and other tools can help with that.